# whaw - window manager independent window layout tool

whaw is a program for X11 that can use advanced tiling algorithms and an
intuitive user interface to quickly lay out windows without having to replace
or modify the set up of your window manager of choice. whaw is meant to augment
the capabilities of your current window manager with basic tiling
operations.

# using whaw

whaw responds to the mouse moving into one of its control corners in order to
not waste screen space yet always be accessible. A window placement operation
consists of three steps.

- choosing a layout algorithm

    Choosing the layout algorithm is combined with activating whaw. In order to
    activate whaw, move the cursor into one of its activation corners, the
    upper-left corner of the screen by default. You will see the cursor change to a
    cross to let you know whaw has been activated. The two layout algorithms are
    horizontal and vertical. to choose horizontal layout, move the mouse cursor
    away from the corner horizontally, to choose vertical layout, move the cursor
    away vertically. the cursor will change into a horizontal or vertical arrow to
    indicate your choice. you can always change the layout algorithm by going back
    into the corner. any whaw operation can be canceled at any point by pressing
    the middle mouse button. The corner that activates whaw can be controlled with
    the --corner option.

    In one-shot mode you can also pass the --htile or --vtile options on the command line to force
    whaw to perform a single layout in the given direction and then exit.

- choosing the windows to move/resize

    Use the mouse to left click on each window you want to add to your layout
    group. as you click on each window, it should be moved off screen to let you
    select windows underneath it. If you hold down shift while clicking on a
    window, it will grow to take up two slots instead of one if you don't want
    to evenly space things.

- choosing where to place the windows

    To have the windows tiled across a given screen, press the right mouse
    button on that screen. to have them placed in a specific area with a
    specific size, use the left mouse button to drag out a box. the windows will
    be placed inside this box.

- virtual screens

    To avoid spanning windows accross multiple monitors, whaw will examine the
    monitor configuration and only tile accross the single monitor on a right
    click. You can also force whaw to treat a single monitor as if it were two via
    the --virtual option.  This is useful if you have a very large monitor and
    don't want to maximize a window completely via whaw.

# caveats

Some window managers fight whaw, although most can be made to work. let me know
if you are experiencing trouble with any particular window manager and what type of thing
you are seeing. the most common issues involve focus or window stacking order
not being set properly, there are many techniques to fix these sort of issues
specified by X11, ICCCM and freedesktop, sometimes it takes some care in
finding the combination that works properly for a given manager. Other window
managers with their own tiling algorithms (such as ion and ratpoison) cannot
work with whaw at all since their own algorithms take precedence.

# testing

Whaw has been tested with the following systems: metacity (the default
fedora and gnome window manager), twm (the X11 classic), fluxbox and no
window manager at all.  whaw should degrade gracefully by modifying its
algorithms from using a EWMH complaint window manager, to a ICCCM compliant
one, all the way to a nonexistent one.

# author

Whaw was written by John Meacham who can be contacted at
http://notanumber.net

# getting it

- a github mirror of releases is at http://github.com/johnmeacham/whaw 
- the homepage for whaw is http://repetae.net/john/computer/whaw
- you can download it at http://repetae.net/john/computer/whaw/drop
- the darcs repository is at http://repetae.net/john/repos/whaw
- the changelog is at http://repetae.net/john/computer/whaw/Changelog.txt
